[DOCS-4331] Add dbm guide for setting up dbm/apm linking (#15785)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/guide/connect_dbm_and_apm.md

---
title: Connecting DBM and APM
kind: guide
beta: true
private: true
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> The features discussed on this page are in private beta. Contact your Customer Success Manager to learn more about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The features described on this page are in beta. Contact your Customer Success Manager to learn more about them.
```

</div>

This guide assumes that you have configured [Datadog Monitoring][1] and are using [APM][2].

## Before you begin

Supported tracers
: [dd-trace-go][3] >= 1.42.0 (support for [database/sql][4] and [sqlx][5] packages)

Supported databases
: postgres, mysql

Supported Agent versions
: 7.36.1+

Data privacy

> : Enabling sql comment propagation results in potentially confidential data (service names) being stored in the databases which can then be accessed by other 3rd parties that have been granted access to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Enabling SQL comment propagation results in potentially confidential data (service names) being stored in the databases which can then be accessed by other third-parties that have been granted access to the database.
```

## Setup

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Go" %}}

> Update your app dependencies to include [dd-trace-go@v1.42.0][3] or greater

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your app dependencies to include [dd-trace-go@v1.42.0][3] or greater:
```

```
go get gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1@v1.42.0
```

> Update your code to import the `contrib/database/sql` package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update your code to import the `contrib/database/sql` package:
```

```go
import (
   "database/sql"
   "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/ddtrace/tracer"
   sqltrace "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/contrib/database/sql"
)
```

> Enable the dbm propagation feature using one of the 3 methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the database monitoring propagation feature using one of the following methods:
```

1. Env variable: 

> `DD_TRACE_SQL_COMMENT_INJECTION_MODE=full`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `DD_TRACE_SQL_COMMENT_INJECTION_MODE=full`
```

> 2. Via code during the driver registration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using code during the driver registration:
```

```go
sqltrace.Register("postgres", &pq.Driver{}, sqltrace.WithSQLCommentInjection(tracer.SQLInjectionModeFull), sqltrace.WithServiceName("my-db-service"))

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
   ```go
   sqltrace.Register("postgres", &pq.Driver{}, sqltrace.WithSQLCommentInjection(tracer.SQLInjectionModeFull), sqltrace.WithServiceName("my-db-service"))
   ```
~~~

> 3. Via code on `sqltrace.Open`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Using code on `sqltrace.Open`:
```

```go
sqltrace.Register("postgres", &pq.Driver{}, sqltrace.WithServiceName("my-db-service"))

db, err := sqltrace.Open("postgres", "postgres://pqgotest:password@localhost/pqgotest?sslmode=disable", sqltrace.WithSQLCommentInjection(tracer.SQLInjectionModeFull))
if err != nil {
	log.Fatal(err)
}

> ```

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
   ```go
   sqltrace.Register("postgres", &pq.Driver{}, sqltrace.WithServiceName("my-db-service"))
   
   db, err := sqltrace.Open("postgres", "postgres://pqgotest:password@localhost/pqgotest?sslmode=disable", sqltrace.WithSQLCommentInjection(tracer.SQLInjectionModeFull))
   if err != nil {
	   log.Fatal(err)
   }
   ```
~~~

---
title: Connecting DBM and APM
kind: guide
beta: true
private: true
---

<div class="alert alert-warning">
The features discussed on this page are in private beta. Contact your Customer Success Manager to learn more about it.
</div>

This guide assumes that you have configured [Datadog Monitoring](/database_monitoring/#getting-started) and are using [APM](/tracing/).

## Before you begin

Supported tracers

> : [dd-trace-go](https://pkg.go.dev/gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1) >= 1.42.0 (support for [database/sql](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql) and [sqlx](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/jmoiron/sqlx) packages)

Author: ✅
